Every decision that will require significant
time of your life should be justified.
And in this video we're going to
talk about career of a web-developer.
Now I'm gonna be talking about
three things specifically
and this is a bit of a unique section unlike
all the other ones where
we just code along and learn new skills.
I want to talk about three things in this video.
One is why would you even want to be a developer.
And I know you're taking the course
I know you're committed but
I want to talk to you about why it is such
a good decision to become a developer
and some of the freedom that
it allows in your life.
The second is
we're going to talk about which tools
you should learn to be a successful developer
And then finally the third,
we're going to talk about
what career options
there are out there currently.
So let's tackle the first one
why you would want to be a developer.
Now I know a lot of people taking this course
aren't necessarily from the States, i'm not either.
But I wanted to show you
how much in-demand a good developer is.
Over here I have some salaries
for developers around the States
and you can see that as a Front-end Developer
You have some really really nice salaries.
A lot higher than most industries.
And if you go to Glassdoor, another website that's
really really good to find out what salaries are
and you can do location specific to you
and I have salaries in San Francisco
which I know, I know
they're way too inflated because
to live there it's very expensive.
But I do want to show you that there is
a real value for developers out there.
I've worked in the industry for many years and
finding a job as a developer
was quite frankly very easy
and I'm not trying to be cocky or
overconfident but it is true.
Speak to any developer that knows
his or her stuff
and they're able to find jobs quite easily.
And most times you're interviewing,
you're interviewing the employer
to see that this is a place that you would
want to work because you have so many options, but
you probably already know this,
you're taking this course for a reason.
So let's talk about what you should learn.
I have for you a couple of surveys here
to show you the industry demand.
The first one is from Jetbrains.
A very very big software company.
and it talks about Javascript and
which frameworks are the most popular.
The one we're going to learn in this course
is React and you can see here, it is
the most popular,
it is probably the most well respected.
And a lot of big companies are using it.
It was developed at Facebook
and now it is used by Netflix
and a ton of other big companies
that do big things technologically.
You can also see that what editors
and IDEs developers regularly use
and we see that Sublime Text is number one
and that is what we are using in this course.
Let's take a look at Stackoverflow
for those that don't know,
Stackoverflow is probably the best
website there is for developers.
Throughout your career,
you'll go on to this website
to ask questions and get answers almost daily.
And one of the things that
they do quite often is a survey
and a Stackoverflow trends analysis
and you can see over here that Javascript
is trending quite quite high
all the way into this year
and into next year, it is a very in demand language.
It can be used on the web, on mobile,
on little devices, pretty much anywhere.
If you can code Javascript, you can code
anything electronic at this point in time.
So that is why we're learning Javascript.
Let's look at the next one.
This one is by Github. And you're going to
get to know Github a lot better
in the section that we will have
for Github and Git.
but I want to show you their stats on open source
projects and you'll see that Javascript
is in the lead with 2.3 million projects.
I love the language.
It's a great language to learn as your first one
and it can take you really really far.
Finally I made this little diagram for us
just so you have a big picture
of what we're going to learn in this course.
We're going to learn basic skills like
putting a website online and
Terminal usage, Git and Github
and RESTful Web services.
We're also going to do front-end work
and some of the videos
have already gone through this.
but we learn HTML5, CSS3.
Now this is kind of interchangeable but
if you want to be a designer
You are more likely going to focus on
CSS, responsive design
and other tools like Photoshop, Sketch
and Illustrator and
this is not the course for it,
we are becoming developers.
So we're going to learn Javascript instead
and Javascript probably has a couple of
libraries and frameworks
that are really really popular.
and the one used most often in mid-2000 was jQuery
but that is now very outdated and
you'll still see it here and there but you won't
see a lot of the big top web sites using it.
So we won't be focusing on that,
we will just cover it slightly
but it is not really an employable skill to learn.
And then I want to draw
your attention to three other
libraries and frameworks and
what those are, are tools
for developers to build web sites and
web applications.
And in this course we're going to learn React
and you'll get to understand the
technology behind that a lot more.
But I chose React because it is currently the
most popular way to build web applications.
And the developer community
around it is very very big.
Angular.js was very popular a few years ago
but it's kind of starting to die down right now.
And I personally think there's a bigger future
with React and some people may disagree but
having worked in the industry and seeing
people's reaction to different technologies
I really think React's going to go really far and
you'll hear a ton about it.
Vue.js is the up-and-comer that it's fairly new,
the community is a lot smaller
so there is not as much information
out there as there is for React
but we won't be covering that topic again because
we're focusing on the most employable skills.
That is Javascript with React.
Finally let's talk about career options.
We're going to talk about the type of work that
you will be able to get as a developer
and some of the confusing job titles that are
out there. So let's start off with the job titles.
You might know what web-developer is because,
well you've signed up for this course. That is
somebody who works on the web,
builds web sites, builds web applications.
We also touched on the back-end developer,
that is the person that
works on the server, works with some databases
and they aren't too concerned with
user facing side of a website or a web app.
A full-stack developer is somebody that can
work both on the frontend and backend
and in this course we're going to learn
both frontend and backend.
So you'll be able to call yourself
a full-stack developer
because you'll understand the full picture of
how these web technologies work.
We also have mobile developer
and the reason that I use React
in this course is that
even though it is a course geared towards
web development
using 90 percent of the things you'll learn
with React, you'll be able to build
an Android app and an iOS app very easily.
And then finally two things at the end here
we have software developer
and that is somebody that
is able to build software not necessarily
on the web, not necessarily on mobile.
They're able to use a programming language
to build software, that is
code that can be run anywhere.
And then finally, software engineers use
computer science
to solve complex machine problems.
And that is a very very broad statement, but it is.
They're not necessarily good at
one coding language, they're good at
working with machines.
So I just wanted to throw that out there so
you know what the differences are
when you are looking for jobs out there.
Now let's talk about the fun stuff.
The type of work you'll be able to do
when you become a web developer.
and ideally if you go full force into this course
and you really learn the concepts that we
cover in this course, the type of work that
you can do with this.
So the first one is entrepreneurship.
And obviously when you're able to build web sites
and you're able to build
landing pages and applications,
well you could start your own business
if you have that ambition and idea
then entrepreneurship is definitely
a good avenue to go.
And it is part of the reason that
I myself became a developer initially.
The second one is startups, if you want
to work for young companies that
are moving fast and creating some really
cool technologies or innovations
well, startups are always
looking for developers.
We also have 'Freelance' and that is being
able to work on (your) own terms and
you know, using websites like Upwork to
look for contract jobs and build
quick projects for people
around the world as they need fit.
And you know,
running a little business for yourself.
The next one is working for
the big tech companies, so
that's Facebook, Google, Amazon
if you're in the States.
If you're somewhere else around the world
you have your own big tech companies
and they are always a great place
to get hired as a developer because
they have massive teams.
They're solving really really
big problems and they need
all the developer knowledge that they can get.
It is not for everybody but they are great places
to be surrounded by really really
smart people and learn from them.
We also have ad agencies, so ad agencies
always have contracts where
they have a company that is working with them
and they usually need some sort of a website
or a promo site built for them
and they have staff developers
that help them work on these
different projects with different clients.
And then finally I bolded this
and that is remote work.
I know a lot of developers that
get into development because
of this ideal of being able to work remotely and
you know what, that is absolutely true.
If that is the type of life that you want and
that is the type of career that you want
working remotely is definitely something that
a developer is able to do, because
lets be honest, to be a developer
all you need is an Internet connection
and you don't necessarily need to be
face to face with a client, with a co-worker
with an employer because like I said,
everything is on a computer.
So that is not for everybody
but it is an option and it is
an attractive option for some.
So what was the meaning of this video then?
Well we went over a few things because
I wanted you to understand
what we are doing in this course, but
there's an important point
I really want to emphasize, that is
to keep in mind that when you start off something
like learning development skills
the first two months will feel like you are
climbing an insurmountable mountain.
Every video or course or tutorial or
book that you read is going to make you feel like
you're the only person in the world that
doesn't know this stuff, but
I'm here to tell you to stay strong.
I went through it, every single developer
has gone through it.
You'll get there and you will have
more and more 'aha!' moments as time progresses
and we even have a word for this in the industry
it's called the 'imposter syndrome'
where you feel like
you're the only one who
doesn't know this information.
Rest assured, we all feel this way
when we learn something new.
What you'll learn is that being a good developer
isn't necessarily memorizing
a whole bunch of documentation or code.
It's about learning how to solve problems
using all the tools that are available to you.
And I'm going to leave you with that.
Being a developer isn't easy.
You really do need to know your stuff.
So follow along this course and
really engage in all the lessons
and all the exercises.
And if you have questions, ask them
because in-demand developers are
problem solvers, not just coders.
Can't wait to see you in the next video. Bye-bye